hi everyone welcome to arts listening
sorry
IELTS writing task 2 today we're going
to be looking at the advantage
disadvantage essay just let me share my
screen with you so you can see yep there
we are okay right so we're going to be
looking today at a specific type of
essay question that you might get in
your IELTS test
it's the essay type that asks you to
discuss either advantages or
disadvantages of something so what you
need to do with this essay is to weigh
up to ideas so you're going to weigh up
the pros or the advantages on the one
hand and the disadvantages on the other
and then you're going to decide what
you're going to write about so what do
you have to do when you get your essay
prompt and you open that paper and you
read your essay question okay you're
going to want to read it a few times to
really take it in and make sure that you
understand the essay question so after
you read it once and make sure you get
the general idea you then want to go
back and read it again a second time in
detail and what you want to do is look
for keywords and circle those keywords
to really make sure that you're
addressing the topic then you want to
decide if you're going to write about
just the advantages just the
disadvantages or both now this
particular essay question that we're
going to look at today we're just going
to write about one okay and I'll explain
to you why once we see the question the
next step is unpacking the question so
dividing it into its three separate
parts you're going to use those parts
and paraphrase them so that you can
write your introduction you're then
going to write your body paragraphs and
then your conclusion and all of these
are
a specific formula that we're going to
look at so the first thing we do after
we've read the question once is go back
reread it and look for keywords so
here's our question online education is
becoming increasingly popular many
university students are choosing to
study online instead of face-to-face do
the advantages of distance education
outweigh the advantages so what's the
first key word that we notice what is
the topic about okay out of all of the
words that we've read we just want to
isolate the ones that are really
necessary for us so the first key word
is online education okay so that's what
the topic is and then what about online
education well do the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages so here are
keywords online education advantages
disadvantages so we know straight away
what kind of essay we need to write okay
next thing we want to do is decide if
we're going to write about just the
advantages just the disadvantages or
both now there's an important keyword in
that question that will help us decide
and that keyword is outweigh so a lot of
the time not always but a lot of time
the essay question for this type is
worded in that way do the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages now what does
outweigh mean so our way means which one
is heavier or which one has more okay do
the disadvantages have more oh sorry the
advantages have more other disadvantages
okay in this case the disadvantages are
heavier okay so they have more they
outweigh the advantages
so because they outweigh and there's
more disadvantages than advantages then
that's what we're going to focus on in
RSA okay or alternatively the other way
around
so when we talk about or the essay
question mentions the word outweigh
meaning are there more so if you think
there are more advantages than
disadvantages of online education then
in your essay your two body paragraphs
will explain why why are there more
advantages what are they and why are
they so essentially what you're going to
do in order to decide is to weigh up the
pros and the cons so the pros are the
advantages cons other disadvantages and
you're just going to do this in about a
minute in your planning stage so I've
drawn up my own little table advantages
of online education are flexible timing
and flexible location the disadvantages
of online education is no personal
interaction so here which one outweighs
the other are there more advantages or
more disadvantages so we can see that
I've come up with more advantages so the
advantages outweigh or are heavier then
the disadvantages so this is what my
essay is going to be about yep so now we
want to unpack the question we have to
unpack the essay question so that we can
write our introduction because our
introduction is basically a paraphrase
of the essay question okay so we need to
decide what are all its parts so that we
can organize our thoughts and organize
our intro
so the three parts are the general topic
the specific idea and the instructions
so let's look at that in relation to our
essay question the general topic is
online education the specific idea is
that more students now are choosing to
study online and the the question or
instructions are do the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages this is the
question you have to answer okay so here
just to break it down a bit further
general topic specific idea about the
topic and instructions so now you want
to use the parts of the prompt or parts
of the question to write your intro and
here's the introduction formula
paraphrase the specific statement a
general statement so a paraphrase the
specific statement and then answer the
question so it's going to look like this
if the general statement was online
education is becoming increasingly
popular my paraphrase is eLearning is
gaining popularity so I've chosen the
surname elearning instead of online
education and instead of is becoming
increasingly popular I have said is
gaining popularity same idea just
different way of expressing it next
thing I want to do is power phrase the
general statement from the question and
it was many university students are
choosing to study online instead of face
to face my paraphrase many tertiary
students are opting to study online
rather than the more traditional method
so instead of university students
I said tertiary students tertiary
meaning higher education instead of
opting I said so so choosing I said
opting
and instead of face-to-face I said more
traditional method moving on to the
third part of the essay question do the
advantages of distance education are
away the disadvantages so here's where
you have to answer the question and
write what the essay will do over the
benefits of traditional education cannot
be ignored the advantages of online
learning outweigh the disadvantages and
this essay will discuss why so the last
paragraph of my introduction I'm telling
the reader what my belief is which is
there are more advantages than
disadvantages and I'm also telling them
what I'm going to be discussing in the
essay which is explaining why I think
this so putting it all together you can
see how the question broken up into the
three parts then relates to the
introduction okay the three parts of my
introduction and when I put my
introduction together into a paragraph
this is how it should look okay so these
are the three parts
and now I can relax because I've
unpacked my question and then I'm
repacked it into a lovely nice neat
paraphrase as my introduction moving on
to the fifth step is we want to then use
the body paragraph formula to write our
two body paragraphs so what is the body
paragraph formula four parts the first
part is your opening sentence this will
give the main idea of the paragraph this
will tell the reader exactly what your
idea is that you're going to be
discussing then you're going to support
it with one to two supporting sentences
these are your reasons or your
explanation
then you're going to give evidence so
this is going to be an example or a
detail or a fact and then you're going
to close your paragraph by restating
your main idea so repeating it in a
different way
and then transitioning to the next
paragraph so let's see what that looks
like so let's remember we decided that
we were going to focus only on the
advantages the advantages of online
learning outweigh the disadvantages so
now I'm going to say why well the first
reason is flexible time this is my main
idea the reason for flexible time is
online learning doesn't have a set
schedule now I need to give an example
of why that's a good thing for people
well because people who have work and
family commitments can't commit to a set
schedule and so a flexible timing would
suit them better and then link it back
to that main idea is that this then
makes education more available to people
so this is my first body paragraph main
idea reason example link I want to do
that with my next body paragraph next
body paragraph I'm going to introduce my
second reason on my second advantage and
I've chosen to talk about flexible
location the reason why is it flexible
well because it's off-campus so people
can study from home for example people
who live in remote areas or areas far
away from university can also study and
I linked this back in my last sentence
by saying education therefore can reach
more people because it's flexible in
location so you can see how my
introduction or the last special
the last sentence links directly to my
body paragraph
I've exactly done in my paragraphs what
I said I would do and now I take those
ideas and I'm going to write them out in
two complete sentences so online
learning has enabled students the
flexibility of studying in their own
time
traditionally full-time and face-to-face
learning is based on a set schedule with
a class timetable this means that people
who work full time or have family
commitments are unable to attend classes
now here's my evidence however with
online education students can often
choose the time they study and the speed
at which they completes their course so
this is an example of how online
learning is flexible in terms of time
then I'm going to finish my paragraph by
restating that our idea this new method
of learning has opened up new
opportunities for people who work full
time or have family commitments okay so
you can see that this whole paragraph is
talking only about one idea related to
flexibility of time and putting it all
together this is what my paragraph will
look like ok but a paragraph to the same
thing open my paragraph with an opening
sentence giving my main idea explaining
my main idea providing an example and
then restating my main idea so distance
education enables anyone with a computer
or smartphone to access their course
from anywhere as the courses are
available off-campus people in remote
areas are able to access education so
I've developed I started off with
anywhere general location then I've
supported it by saying especially people
in remote
area is and then I've given more detail
by saying living far from a university
does not have to be an impediment to
education due to the modern technology
the ability to further one's education
is now possible to a wider range of
people in regional areas this new mode
of learning is helping students to
transform their lives and take advantage
of educational opportunities so here I
end by repeating or restating why online
education is such an advantage compared
to traditional education okay
it reaches a wider amount of people and
people who live in remote areas or
country sides can also have access to
education without having to move so
putting all of those sentence together
creates my paragraph finally we want to
write our conclusion so our conclusion
is that formula is very similar or
pretty much the same as our introduction
formula we want to start off with to
conclude or in conclusion and then
paraphrase the general statement
paraphrase a specific statement and then
answer the question by summarizing the
points that I discussed in my paragraphs
so if we go back to the essay question
when we unpacked it into its three parts
here they are okay and I want to
paraphrase them again online education
is becoming increasingly popular to
conclude education is often seen as a
gateway to success many university
students are choosing to study online
instead of face-to-face the rise of the
Internet has enabled far greater number
of people to access online learning okay
so both of these sentences are
essentially saying that online learning
has enabled more people to study
over traditional face-to-face learning
and then and do the advantages of
distance education outweigh the
disadvantages I answer the question
distance learning offers more advantages
than disadvantages and then I summarize
my points due to its flexibility and
ability to provide education to a
greater number of people okay so I
talked about it being flexible in terms
of time and flexible in terms of
location so it can reach a larger larger
number of people so I've mentioned that
again in my concluding sentence
so my conclusion should always include
three parts and I can get there three
parts by going back to the question so
here we are and here are how the parts
of the question and the conclusion
relate to one another so it might help
you guys when you get your essay
question what I always do is I get a pen
my pen on my pencil
I read the essay question and I put a
line in between each part so that I can
see the three parts of the essay
question quite clearly so when I go back
to write my intro and I go back to write
my conclusion and I've got a visual
representation of part 1 part 2 part 3
alternatively you can highlight if
you're allowed highlighters into your
test center each part of the question in
a different color
that also might help you visually see
the different parts okay whatever you
have to do to make it clear so putting
it all together is my conclusion which
will be one complete paragraph and the
final product looks like this so you're
left with four paragraphs
okay so let's recap the agree/disagree
essay after you read the question once
over to get an idea of what it's about
look for the keywords and circle them
and then decide if you're going to write
about the advantages or the
disadvantages which one outweighs the
other if you believe one outweighs the
other or one has more than the other
then that's the one that you write about
then you're going to unpack the essay
question very important step and as I
said you can highlight each part in a
different color or put a line after
every part because you need those parts
to be clearly separated so that you can
more easily paraphrase them to write
your introduction and your conclusion
okay I've got a couple of little tasks
for you guys first one is to reorder the
introduction so I've got an intro out of
order the three three parts and I would
just like you to put it into order for
me so you can just put it into order by
typing in the letters
great so the answer is CBA the cost of
space exploration are extremely high
this is a general idea then we're going
to then we move into something a bit
more specific so it has been suggested
that these funds should be spent
improving the quality of life on earth
I believe space exploration has more
benefits than drawbacks and this essay
will explain two reasons why so you can
see that a set of advantages and
disadvantages they've said benefits and
drawbacks so these are the synonyms that
you can also use okay tasks to reorder
the conclusion
all right let's have a look
in conclusion advertising informs people
about the different goods and services
they can purchase so the clue there was
that you always want to start with in
conclusion however so this is one point
of view that advertising informs people
about the different goods and services
they can purchase so it's a good thing
however it has also led to a rise in
needless consumerism as people make
unnecessary purchases so this is the
opposite idea this is the disadvantage
and then we move on or finish with the
opinion that advertising has more
advantages than disadvantages okay and
then I repeat the two reasons because it
has provides information and allows
consumers to compare options so these
would have been the two main ideas of my
body paragraphs okay final task I'm
going to give you an essay question I
would like you to unpack the essay
question so first decide where's the
first part of the general statement
where's the second part or the specific
statement and the third part which is
the question you need to answer I then
want to you to use those parts and
paraphrase each one to write a full
introduction okay I'm going to give you
about five minutes to do that so here's
your essay question
[Music]
you
okay how are you going with your
introductions
[Music]
okay so I've had a look at one of your
answers which is very good just make
sure guys that you clearly answer the
question do the advantages of
globalisation outweigh the disadvantages
so in your last sentence you need to say
the advantages of globalisation outweigh
the disadvantages or the disadvantages
our way oh sorry
this should say disadvantages as a
mistake so yeah it's asking your
question so you need to make sure that
you do answer that clearly in your last
sentence I'm just going to show you my
answer which is this one
although globalization let me just make
sure I've got the right spelling
so although globalization has many
positive economic effects there are also
disadvantages that need to be discussed
I believe these actually outweigh the
positives and this essay will give two
reasons why so what have I done here
I've addressed the first part of the
sorry the first part of the question
which talks about the positive economic
effects that's the part 1 part 2 is the
negative side and then part 3 is well
what's your opinion are the more
advantage
or are there more disadvantages so here
I've mentioned the positive economic
effects there are many but I've also
said that there are disadvantages that
need to be discussed and answered the
question then actually yes it's the
disadvantages that outweigh the
positives and this essay will give two
reasons why so in my essay then I need
to discuss what these two disadvantages
of globalization are and why I believe
they aren't weigh the positives alright
so I'm just checking one of your answers
good
June yes well done excellent guys
nice paraphrases okay so as you can see
your introduction actually sits it's
really the most important paragraph of
your whole essay it's it's like the head
of your essay it does the thinking and
it tells the reader what should you
provide the map of your essay for the
reader so the reader will know what
exactly arreste is going to be about
what your opinion is and what it's going
to talk about okay and then your
conclusion basically tells the reader
what your essay was about what your
opinion was and what your reasons were
so that's how you write an effective
essay so to practice your essay writing
you can go to the e to language website
and once you log in you can go to
writing to the writing to tab scroll
down to assessments and then if your
package allows you can click on to your
assessments and submit an essay writing
practice for feedback okay thank you
guys
e do you have any questions
so remember that your essay needs to be
about 250 words and you've got about 40
minutes to write it okay so that gives
you enough time to unpack the essay and
if you use this formula and stick to it
it really is a time-saving technique as
well to counter your words you don't
have to count every single word 250
words a quick and easy way of doing that
is to count the number of words on your
first line and multiply that by the
number of lines and that will give you
an approximate an approximate word count
so that will save you a bit of time as
well all right guys this um this welna
is not going to be uploaded to the
website but if you are a paid user you
can send me an email along with your
eetu language username and i will give
you access to it alright see ya
we'll see you next week